In the previous video, we already
learn about standard access list,
so the case is we block the
packet from vlan 20 to the server.
We assign the access list in
the fa0/0 with direction out.
Next in this video, we are going
to learn more about direction.
We will remove the access-group in the fa0/0
and then try to assign the access list to fa0/1.
And absolutely if we assign the access
list to fa0/1, the direction will be in,
because if we see the flow, from vlan 20 go to server,
the packet will be go like this.
So here in the fa0/1, the packet will be in,
but in fa0/0, the packet will be out.
Okay now let’s go to interface fa0/0,
and then no ip access-group 1 out.
Now the access list is not assign to any
interface, so now, vlan 20 should be able
to ping to the server again, let’s try. Okay
here we can see that the result is success.
Now let’s assign the access-list to fa0/1,
interface fa0/1, ip access-group 1 in.
Let’s test from vlan 20 to the server again,
okay here failed. Test again from
vlan 20 to server 2, also failed.
Let’s see the access-list, do show access-list,
here we can see that now the match is 6.
Okay now let’s talk more about direction.
If we assign the access-list in fa0/1 with
direction in like this, the packet that blocked
is not only from vlan 20 to the server, but
from vlan 20 to the router will also blocked.
Why? Remember that we assign
the access list in the fa0/1,
so packet from vlan 20 to the
router will also blocked here.
Let’s test it, vlan 20 to the router 2, here we
can see that the result Is failed, test again,
still failed.
Let’s see the access list, here we
can see that now the match is 8.
Let’s test from vlan 10 to pc 2, success,
vlan 10 to the server, also success.
Okay so if we assign the access list in fa0/0,
from vlan 20 to the router is still success,
but to the server absolutely failed.
But if we assign the access list in fa0/1,
from vlan 20 to the router is already blocked.
Let’s try, now let’s remove the access list from
fa0/1, interface fa0/1, no ip access-group 1 in,
and then let’s assign the access list to fa0/0
again, interface fa0/0, ip access-group 1 out.
Okay now from vlan 20 to the router
should be success. Let’s test it,
Okay here we can see that the result is success.
Let’s see the access list , do show access-list,
here we can see that the match on second rule is
19, let’s test again, show again, okay here we can
see that the match is still 19, this is because
we assign the access list to fa0/0,
and the packet from vlan 20 to the router is not go through
fa0/0, this is why the packet is not match.
Some of you may be have a question, why
we don’t configure access list on router1.
If we configure access list on router 1, we
can assign the access list to fa0/0 or fa0/1,
if we assign to fa0/0,
the direction is in, and we assign the
access list to fa0/1, the direction is out.
Let’s say we assign the access list
on fa0/0, so from vlan 20 to router 1,
router 2, and server will be blocked.
Let’s try it, unassign the access list on router2
first, here we assign the access list to fa0/0,
go to interface fa0/0, and
then no ip access-group 1 out.
Next we can copy the access list configuration,
and then next we will paste the
configuration to router 1, do show run,
this is the access list configuration, copy.
Now let’s configure the access list on router 1.
Enable, configure terminal, let’s just
paste the access list from router 2.
Next, let’s assign the access list to interface,
let’s say we will assign to fa0/0, so
interface fa0/0, ip access-group 1 in.
Now from vlan 20 to router 1, router 2, and
server should be blocked. Let’s test it.
Okay this is success, test again
from pc 2 to router 1, still success.
Let’s check it, do show access list, okay
here nothing match with the access list.
This is because the interface that connected
to vlan 20 is not fa0/0, but fa0/0.20,
so let unassign the access list from fa0/0,
and then go to interface fa0/0.20. ip access-group 1 in.
Let’s test again, from vlan 20 to
router1, failed, vlan 20 to router 2,
also failed, vlan 20 to server, also failed.
Let’s see the access list again,
do show access-list, here we can see that the
match is 3. This is because we send 3 packet.
Okay, so now from vlan 20 to anywhere is blocked.
This is why we configure the access list
on router 2, because if we configure the
access list on router 1, so from vlan 20
to router 1 and router 2 will also blocked.
Let’s unassign the access
list, no ip access-group 1 in,
Test the ping again,
okay success.
Now let’s assign the access list on router 2 again,
Interface fa0/0, ip access-group 1 out.
Let’s test again, vlan 20 to router,
success, vlan 20 to router 2 also success,
vlan 20 to server, okay this is failed.
Okay I hope you understand the
implementation of direction in access list.
I think enough for this video
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next video.